We get the answer by reading numbers
off the conditional probability table.
So the probability of B being positive
0.001, of E being positive because we're
dealing with the positive case now for
the variable E, is 0.002.
Probability of A being positive
because we're dealing with that case,
given that B is positive.
And the case when E is positive,
that we can read off here, is 0.95,
probability that J is positive
given that A is positive, is 0.9.
To finally, probability that M is
positive given that A is positive,
we read up here as 0.7.
We multiply all those together,
it's going to be a small number
because we got the 0.001 and
the 0.002 here,
that works out to 0.000001197.
That seems like a really small number
but remember we have normalized by
the P(J +MJ) and this is only
one of the four possibilities.
We have to enumerate over all four
possibilities for E and A and
in the end, it works out that
the probability of the burglary alarm
being true given that John and
Mary calls Is 0.284.
And we get that number because
intuitively it seems that the alarm is
fairly reliable, John and
Mary calling are very reliable.
But the prior probability
of burglary is low and
those two terms combined together
to give us the 0.284 value when
we sum up each of the four
terms of these products.